While we have some editorial freedom in
how we understand our past, we can't
reinvent ourselves entirely, we must
work within the limitations of reality
and of history. And doing so allows us
to build a life of meaning. Work to
recognize and mitigate splitting.
Splitting is difficult to recognize
because it distorts perception. But over
time, you can learn to detect its
characteristic cognitive and emotional
shifts. Common indicators sometimes
include black and white or all or
nothing thinking. If you perceive
someone, yourself included, as entirely
good or entirely bad, then you're likely
splitting. Rapid shifts in perception.
If someone you usually care about
suddenly seems irredeemably awful, or if
you go from admiration to disdain, then
splitting is probably at play. Emotional
whiplash. If you find yourself hating
someone that you normally love or
suddenly viewing them as embarrassing,
worthless, or persecuto, it's worth
questioning whether your perception has
temporarily shifted. Recognizing
splitting as it happens can be
enormously helpful in mitigating its
harmful effects.